{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf250
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Optima-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\fi560\sl288\slmult1\sb160\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs26 \cf0 After years of working in knowledge representation, specifically description logics, I\'92ve come to regard the whole endeavor as somewhat over-ambitious and inherently naive. The notion that real world knowledge can be nicely captured with description logic seems at best to be an extension of the idea embodied in object oriented programming that one can model real world objects. As the logician Girard might say it\'92s a bad lemma based on a flawed theorem. This approach to building structured vocabularies puts too much emphasis on things and their classifications into descriptive categories. \
For example, take a typical disease such as breast cancer. It is obviously a disease and should be classified as such but there are far too many aspects and characteristics of the disease to try and model it in a description logic based terminology. For example an anatomist, a clinician, a surgeon, a pharmacologist, an oncologist, a pathologist, an insurance gatekeeper, a hospital nurse, a spouse; all these people will have a somewhat different perspective on the disease and any terminology that models breast cancer can at best only serve the needs of all of these views if it states only what is obvious. Beyond that, inconsistencies emerge that immediately poke holes in attempts to accurately describe the disease from any given perspective. For example, two specific forms of breast cancer may be totally different to a surgeon in terms of the procedures employed in removing them, yet almost identical to a pharmacologist in terms of the chemotherapies employed. \
The problem that arise from these disparate world views is that in order to create a terminology that is useful it quickly become large. How the concepts are organized will depend large on the relations and associations chosen for the modeling. To continue with the example, in cancer genomics one is interested in both genes and proteins. Apparently these are almost the same thing but it\'92s considered that a gene encodes proteins and a protein is encoded by a gene. So this pair of relations, which mathematically appear to be converses of one another, is primary for purposes of organizing the knowledge about breast cancer. On the other hand a clinician or surgeon would be far more concerned about the disease in terms of it\'92s anatomy. The relations in this domain would clearly give rise to a somewhat different terminology.}